<!-- sheikh.qasim@gmail.com +923008540838  

				LUMS Probability course exam 2004
 -->
<problem>
  <script type="loncapa/python">
from random import randint 
import math
from scipy.stats import norm
 

def compare(f1,f2,tol=0.0001):
  return abs(f1 - f2) &lt; tol
  
def test_answer(expected,answer):
  return compare(eval(answer.strip()),float(expected.strip()))  
 
  
Y0 = 5
Y1 = 20

Y2 = randint(Y0,Y1)          # Average useful life of a TV set 
Y3 = randint(3,6)            # Number of TV sets; redundancy level
Y4 = Y3-1 
A_0 = Y2*Y3

</script>
<p>
Suppose that I have <b>$Y3</b> identical television sets, that is, they are all the same model.  The working lifetime of this model of television is exponentially distributed.  The average useful lifetime of these sets is <b>$Y2</b> years.  

I will watch one set for as long as it works.  Then I will switch one of the remaining <b>$Y4</b> sets on and watch that set till it fails. I will continue this process till the last set fails.  

How long can I expect to be able to watch television before I have to buy another set?

</p>
  <formularesponse inline="1" type="cs" samples="x,lambda@0.1,0.1,0.1,0.1,0.1:10,10,10,10,10#10" answer="1/lambda * e ^{-x/lambda}">
    <label>Write symbolic expression for pdf of exponential distribution with \( \lambda = \) $Y2.</label>
    <description>\( f(x ; \lambda) \), for  \( x \ge 0 \)</description>
    <responseparam type="tolerance" default="1%"/>
    <textline inline="1" math="1"/>
    <solution>
      <div class="worked-solution">
        <p><b>Pdf for exponential distribution</b></p>
       
        \( f(x ; \lambda) = \) \(\frac{1}{\lambda} e ^ {-\frac{x}{\lambda} } \)
      </div>
    </solution>
  </formularesponse>
   <formularesponse inline="1" type="cs" samples="x,k,lambda@0.1,0.1,0.1,0.1,0.1:10,10,10,10,10#10" answer="1/{lambda (k-1)!} (x/lambda)^{k-1} e^{-x/lambda}">
    <label>Write symbolic expression for pdf of gamma distribution with redundancy level k and  \( \lambda = \) $Y2.</label>
    <description>\( f(x ; \lambda) \), for  \( x \ge 0 \)</description>
    <responseparam type="tolerance" default="1%"/>
    <textline inline="1" math="1"/>
    <solution>
      <div class="worked-solution">
        <p><b>Pdf for binomial distribution with redundancy level k</b></p>
       
        \( f(x ; \lambda) = \)  \(\frac{1}{\lambda (k-1)!} (\frac{x}{\lambda}) ^{k-1} e ^ {-\frac{x}{\lambda} } \)
      </div>
    </solution>
  </formularesponse>
   <formularesponse inline="1" type="cs" samples="k,lambda@0.1,0.1,0.1,0.1,0.1:10,10,10,10,10#10" answer="k * lambda">
    <label>Write symbolic expression for mean value of gamma distribution with redundancy level k and \( \lambda = \) $Y2.</label>
    <description>mean value</description>
    <responseparam type="tolerance" default="1%"/>
    <textline inline="1" math="1"/>
    <solution>
      <div class="worked-solution">
        <p><b>Mean for gamma distribution with redundancy level k</b></p>
       
        \( E = \)  \( k * \lambda \)
      </div>
    </solution>
  </formularesponse>

  <p>
  <table>
		<tbody>
		  <tr>Estimate the number of years before a new set is bought</tr>
		  <tr><customresponse cfn="test_answer" expect="$A_0"><textline size="30" correct_answer="$A_0"/></customresponse></tr>
          
        </tbody>
  </table>
  </p> 
  
</problem>